hello i'm keith kendrick and i'm the
editor of bbc good food magazine and i'm
joined today by jeremy pang
the renowned author tv chef and founder
of the school of wok
and he's been sharing his knowledge with
good foods nadia on her rookie chef
podcast
but today he's here to tell us all about
the three
essential things we all need to know
about thai cooking
so hi jeremy thanks for joining me hi
keith
it's a pleasure to be here yeah it's
great to see i've seen you on all kinds
of
shows uh you know uh somebody was
telling me an anime though
before about your school of walk which
involved a kind of a whole fried chicken
ball with skin it was just
but but we're here to talk about tight
cooking so tell us the first thing
that we all need to know about thai
cooking okay um
well my first sort of big tip with thai
cooking is
is is to get a grip okay
to get a grip of your pestle and water
um
and and actually like if you can find if
you haven't
if you haven't got a good size pestle
and water if you really want to make
good like authentic and you know
traditional thai cooking
go and find as big a pestle and water as
you can find
because you need the space and you
really need to go at
your spices and your pastes and things
like that
to sort of get that authentic flavor um
you know and and if you've got these
tiny little pests and waters actually i
just gave one
that i've had for years away it was just
sort of the size of
my palm um and you just can't make a
paste
a good paste out or something like that
and so you know we've got this sort of
quite large marble sort of stone pestle
and water but
in thailand you get um you get personal
morses the size of your head
especially when you're making some time
salads and things like that as well you
kind of
really squeezing into and all the juices
are coming out of all the ingredients
you know that's why pessimist is so
important number two for me
is is try to work out and and always
teach yourself how to get that perfect
balance of flavor
texture and color and actually i think
that kind of
spreads across all types of asian
cuisine to be honest not just thai food
but let's take the green curry as an
example you know
that is the perfect balance of flavor
texture and color for me
the color um you know you you don't just
get from the bright color of the veg but
you've also the
the paste in itself that's cooking the
curry is creating that bright green
color yeah and that vibrant color and
and that eventually all the oils were
sort of sort of infused together over
time and you'll you should get a little
almost green layer of droplets of oil
over the top of the coconut milk
and you know that's nice and vibrant and
then you've got your
your balance of sort of texture and the
texture is going to come from
you know succulent meat or proteins
whatever you're cooking
um and then you know a variation of
textures from
things like your melt in the mouth
aubergine or p aubergines
um and then more crunchy veg that you
might put in at the end like your sugar
snaps or your baby corn or
anything crunchy you really that you
might you might want to put in
and then even the garnish like you might
put um
a whole handful of thai uh sweet basil
over the top
yes that's great for flavor but it also
adds a slight
sort of almost spinachy texture to it to
the top of your curry you know so
all of that is really well thought out
whoever invented
a thai green curry you know they they
could they should be given an award you
know they say
you know for that perfect balance of
flavor texture and color
you know so flavor-wise the balance
comes in
from start to finish you know it's not
just
sort of pouring a load of ingredients
into a pan and thinking then that that's
going to that's going to make
the the flavor of a tiny green curry you
know the base
spice paste you know gives us that
spiciness but it also gives us
citrus flavors from things like your
lemongrass your galangal
and and that sort of fresh aroma that
fresh flavor
within that spice that's already in the
just the base paste
then you've got things like your coconut
milk uh if you are going to use chicken
stock you can
you know that where you you'll get your
sweets and savories coming in but again
all very natural ingredients
and then when you top it off and season
your
curry um or your thai food a lot of time
it's
you know fish sauce and palm sugar and
that's a balance of
saltiness and sweet um but also
because it's coming you know fish sauce
that saltiness is not just salty it's
also savory so
you've got that deep savory salty sweet
spicy if you put a little squeeze of
lime juice over the top then you've got
a little bit of tang a little bit sour
as well
you know that perfect balance that's
what you're looking for give it a you
know a big punch for a third one
yeah yeah number three is is to do the
spices again but
it it's for me is it it's actually i
i always sort of talk about tempering
your spices
really cooking them through i think a
lot of people
even if you're a seasoned cook or a
seasoned chef
like perhaps when you're cooking you
feel
you might be a bit hungry and you feel
like you need to cook it too you know
too quickly
that initial sort of ten minutes of uh
or five to ten minutes of actually
cooking your spices through will make
all the difference in the your sort of
end dish or your final dish
you know if i take just chilies which
are
a huge part of thai cuisine um
which actually didn't wouldn't have come
from thailand in the first place most
chiles would have come from
central america which i'm sure you know
you know a bit over time they traveled
and it's been sort of incorporated or
incorporated into thai cuisine um for a
long period of time
it it's not just the heat that our
palates
love um it's the sweetness the natural
sweetness the smokiness the flavor that
comes off those chilies when they're
cooked that gives us that sort of
moorish feeling of wanting to eat more
and more more
and and and that's sort of principle of
like frying whether it's your chilies or
any of your spices your bay spices and
tempering those spices for a good amount
of time
to sort of get all of the oils and the
flavor into
whether it's a stir-fry or a curry
or even a salad you know and it's almost
like your tempering is the same as the
is this the cooking version of your
pounding of the spices in the pestilent
water patience is a virtue
and that's something that we should all
we should all adhere to
jeremy thanks so much for coming uh
coming along to chat to me today
um you can find out jeremy's secrets of
making the perfect
thai green curry i've just listened to
that on the on the
rookie chef podcast and galangal was a
big thing that i kind of
thought i've got to seek out that
particular ingredient there was really
quite fascinating
yeah but um he's the the
jeremy's jeremy's thai green curry will
also be on
bbcgoodfood.com if you want to get that
recipe but for now
thanks very much thanks for joining me
jeremy it's been great to talk to you i
wish we had longer
my pleasure